Importing Workflows
===

Importing workflows allows you to add capabilities to your instance of Aquarium.
A workflow consists of a set of Operation Types, Protocols, Code Libraries, Sample Type definitions and Container definitions.
Workflows are stored in files ending with .aq.
You can find workflows to import on in the Community &gt; Workflows section of this website.
When you import a workflow, Aquarium attempts to be conservative about changing existing workflows already installed.
For example, Aquarium will not overwrite your Sample Type or Containers with Sample Types and/or Containers of the same name.
You can also configure what to do if there are existing Operation Types with the same names as the ones you are importing.

**Good Practice:** Make a back up of your Aquarium database before important a workflow. At this time, there is no easy
  un-import feature in Aquarium.

To import a workflow, go to "Import Workflows" available in the drop down menu at the top left in the Aquarium tool bar.
Next, click "LOAD" and choose a file ending in .aq from your local computer, which will load the workflow into the user interface.
In particular, the operation types, libraries and inventory definitions that will be added to your instance of Aquarium will be shown.
Next, on the left sidebar, choose how you want to import the workflow.
- Check DEPLOY if you would like all new operation types to automatically be deployed after being imported.
      If you do not choose this option, you will have to navigate to each new operation type in the Developer tab and
      click "Deploy" there.
- Choose what you want to happen when Aquarium finds an operation type with the same name and in the same category
      as one you are important. Aquarium can "Fail", meaning the import does not occur. Aquarium cam "Skip" importing the
      particular operation type. Or if you choose "Rename Existing", Aquarium will rename and re-catagorize existing operation types.
Finally, once you are happy with the options, click "IMPORT". If the import is successful, Aquarium will let you know. Otherwise,
Aquarium will describe problems it encountered while importing. One common problem is that existing Sample Type or Container types
have the same names as the ones you are importing, but have some fields defined differently. If you are certain it is okay to do so,
you can change those fields to match the incoming definitions, and then attempt the import again.

Exporting / Publishing Workflows
===

Exporting workflows allows you to package up a set of Operation Types, Protocols, Code Libraries, Sample Type definitions and Container definitions
that can be later imported by someone else. You can either generate a workflow file (with a .aq extension), or you can generate an entire
Github repository and webpage for your workflow that allows users to read through all the documentation for your workflow before importing it,
and to, for example, post issues and questions about the workflow.

To export a workflow, first go to "Export Workflows" available in the drop down menu at the top left in the Aquarium tool bar.
Next, choose the operation types and libraries to include in the workflow in the expandable list in the left sidebar.
If you would simply like to generate a .aq file, type the desired name of the file and click "EXPORT" under Step 1 Alternative.
Otherwise, fill in the for under Step 1. The meaning of the fields is as follows:
- **User Name:** Your Github user name.
- **Repository Name:** The name of the github repository that you would like to create for your new workflow. Alternatively, you can
      update an existing repository that was previously generated by Aquarium.
- **Organization (Optional):** If you would like to publish your workflow under an organization instead of your user name, type the name of a Github
    organization of which you are a member. You must have permission to make new public repositories in this organization.
- **Access Token:** To create an access token for Aquarium, go to your Github account, choose Settings, click "Developer Settings",
    click "Personal Access Tokens", and click "Generate new token". Then describe the token and be sure to click the "repo"
    scope so that Aquarium can manipulate your workflow repositories.

Next, Describe your workflow with a title, description, version number, and copyright holder.
Note that your title will appear on the main Aquarium software page (if you tell us about your workflow), so should be fairly specific.
For example, call your workflow "Franklin Lab Crystallography" instead of just "Crystallography", since there may ultimately end up
being many Crystallography workflows available. Also list who is maintaining the workflow, who the authors are, and anyone you would like
to Acknowledgement. Funding sources could be good to acknowledge in addition to people.

Next,
